content/ux-guide/resources.md, before:

---
title: Resources
description: "Additional templates, checklists, presentations, and other resources that 18F user experience (UX) designers use."
permalink: /ux-guide/resources/
layout: layouts/page
tags: ux-guide
eleventyNavigation: 
  parent: ux-guide
  key: ux-guide-resources-home
  order: 3
  title: Resources
sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
subnav:
  - text: Research
    href: "#research"
  - text: Email templates
    href: "#email-templates"
  - text: Design
    href: "#design"
  - text: General
    href: "#general"
  - text: Presentations (GSA only)
    href: "#presentations"
  - text: Additional reading
    href: "#additional-reading"
---

We’ve collected the following templates, presentations, checklists, etc. as starting points — feel free to [contribute to this guide via GitHub](https://github.com/18F/guides/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and help us keep this list up-to-date!

As indicated below, some of these resources are available only to staff of GSA (General Services Administration) or TTS (Technology Transformation Services).

## Research

[Research plan]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/research-plan/' | url }}). ([Google Doc research Plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1M3GP1JWW9mlZAAONklogurd8qXZLLgBqcKfU5HiS9h0/edit#)).  
Prompts for planning research. Pairs well with our [research planning]({{ '/ux-guide/research/plan/' | url }}) article.

[Research alignment workshop]({{ '/ux-guide/research/alignment-workshop/' | url }}). ([Google Doc Research alignment workshop](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NI_riUcrxaMaHihxzHOsr5Gr1n-FxAIqGZ5wzKt3wh4/edit#)).  
A workshop template for publicizing team questions and prioritizing research themes, setting you up to create a research plan that drives maximum value for your team.

[Usability test quality heuristics]({{ '/ux-guide/usability-test-quality-heuristics/' | url }}). ([Google Docs usability test quality heuristics](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qfGp3H1pdOlNbMYuJNQGyBIkpOcQErduDAl0adv1X-w/edit)).  
A list of indicators to help you and your team determine if your usability test will produce useful results.

### Privacy and informed consent
18F’s Design Research is covered by [GSA's Privacy Act Statement for Design Research.](https://www.gsa.gov/reference/gsa-privacy-program/privacy-act-statement-for-design-research)

[Privacy Act Notice Example]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/privacy-act-notice/' | url }}). ([Privacy Act Notice Example](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uWusmU9o-kTaiiM6d-XlW13wma_NL5MJpTLtzyD0L2M/edit?usp=sharing)).  
Example of a statement to include in your participant agreement.  
Please note: you should run substantial customizations by your supervisor, GSA’s Privacy Office, and GSA’s Office of General Counsel.  
- [Legal notes from GSA OGC](https://drive.google.com/a/gsa.gov/open?id=13FWBP5wMf_MgDToVBBrkOafFe5T8NsldzttGENhGgSU)
- [GSA Privacy Impact Assessment for Design Research](https://www.gsa.gov/reference/gsa-privacy-program/privacy-impact-assessments-pia)

[Design research participant agreement]({{ '/ux-guide/participant-agreement/' | url }}). 
[Design research participant agreement in Spanish]({{ '/ux-guide/participant-agreement-spanish/' | url }}).  
Example agreement for people participating in moderated design research.  
Note: You can customize this template, but it must include a Privacy Act statement. If the interview is with a Federal employee, or otherwise will not include compensation, the agreement must also include an Anti-deficiency Act clause.

Looking for PRA (Paperwork Reduction Act) information? See the [UX Guide Legal page]({{ '/ux-guide/research/legal/' | url }}).

### Interviews
[Interview checklist]({{ '/ux-guide/interview-checklist/' | url }}). ([Google Doc interview checklist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zRA2EK9qZ5H_cM3Ki5xf6Gz72F6Ah6i0E87YpwHTC9A/edit)).  
A checklist for planning and conducting in-depth interviews.

[Interview guide]({{ '/ux-guide/interview-script/' | url }}). ([Google Doc interview guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kju19eC5vjqAd6bZCprniLixr1_u1b4Qfs1zVwTn6UA/edit#)).  
An example guide for moderating in-depth interviews with users.

[Usability test script]({{ '/ux-guide/usability-test-script/' | url }}). 
An example guide for moderating usability tests with users.

[Interview debrief guide]({{ '/ux-guide/interview-debrief/' | url }}). ([Interview debrief guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f5Ue2vbeg4-95EevvlURzvl6yMLwMOXtiNwe6OMnb9E/edit)).  
An example guide for teams leading a post-interview debrief.

### Findings presentation
[Research findings presentation template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hB0tX65pHGRESHc2e_tGlO65Q4AGwSWFuqhSNImNuRk/edit#slide=id.g9af2006e6a_1_238)
A starting point for sharing what you learned during a path analysis or discovery sprint. ([Report template 1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DBgwnnHuvR2fAojOwjP8gZ3_jA9pEAGRRKOnmH69d0s/edit), [Report template 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mohw86sAoNrwZ6MnIMlX8420IkFWV2kPkB4a_XwbCm8/edit))

## Email templates

[Stakeholder introduces researcher]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/email-templates/stakeholder-introduces-researcher/' | url }}). ([Google Doc: Stakeholder introduces researcher](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AEq-h3wuOxl8CCR9Gg4RPO7NaHJnedC4UbXN0UFQ24Y/edit)).  
An email for stakeholders to introduce and legitimize 18F design researchers to their staff.

[Researcher introduces themselves to a participant]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/email-templates/researcher-introduces-themselves/' | url }}). ([Google Doc: Researcher introduces themselves to a participant](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aiK07pszR331v1d1J2tT6HUQ5JGsSjKjeFBzOwCwHLg/edit#)).  
An email for introducing yourself to potential participants (for example, people who responded to your invitation to participate in the research) and finding a good time for them to participate in a moderated research session.

[Researcher sends agreement to participant]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/email-templates/researcher-sends-agreement/' | url }}). ([Google Doc: Researcher sends agreement to participant](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t01t_eLYWJXuKdJkhiyBqkWf4Yr5XsFAbNv-BDAZqzE/edit#)).  
An email asking participants to review and sign a participant agreement before they participate in moderated research.

## Design

### Collaboration

Designers at 18F should work together with other designers or people in our [Acquisition](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/acqstack/), [Product Management](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/product/) and [Engineering](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/engineering/) Chapters. Read their pages in the [TTS/18F Handbook](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/) for more information.


18F/TTS staff can also participate in local communities of practice in by joining (18F/TTS access only):

- [Content guild (#g-content in Slack)](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/g-content)
- [Accessibility guild (#g-accessibility in Slack)](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/g-accessibility/)
- [Research guild (Channel #g-research in Slack)](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/g-research)

### Requesting help

If you’re in need of a particular skill — help with a presentation or design deliverable; writing and content strategy; or development tasks — 18F staff  may be able to provide support. You can request assistance from 18F colleagues for help on non-billable and billable projects in the [#18f-help-wanted](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=18f-help-wanted) channel. Each discipline is represented at any time in the channel.

The only limitation is that tasks must typically take fewer than 8 hours of work a week, over no more than 3 weeks, for the person providing the assistance. 

### Presenting the work
We most commonly share our work via presentations. These presentations can vary widely based on the audience. Here are a few presentation-building tips:

* Utilize our [18F-branded templates found on the 18F brand site]({{ '/brand/templates/' | url }}) to maintain consistency and save time.
* The presentation deck should tell a compelling story and be easy to read. Make sure to include enough content so those not able to attend the presentation can view the deck later and understand what you’re aiming to communicate. Refer to this presentation on [How to design a better deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WMbN1feG1bMhaFx5YbXoYUTE7xgZdMewMaQBZeL3YmA/edit#slide=id.g58dd554fac_0_397) for additional pointers and guidance.
* Check out the [Project resources folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1L9qqS6-b-emvlWJ4JPCG58LW62bbV361) for reusable content and templates; browse [previous 18F Path Analysis project artifacts [Github]](https://github.com/18F/project-artifacts/blob/master/projects.md) for inspiration; or view the [Design wiki [Github]](https://github.com/18F/Design-Wiki/wiki) for additional examples.
* Feel free to include references or links to further reading at the end of your presentation.


### Tools

- [Cloud.gov Pages](https://cloud.gov/pages/)
- [Cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov/)

## General

- [GSA TTS Handbook](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/)
- [18F Methods](https://methods.18f.gov/)
- [USDS Playbook](https://playbook.cio.gov/)
- [New Hire README](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/getting-started/)
- [Project Start Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jFGksReKrt2PY_QVe7fj1aOCcyjHlGPf5hkKgv7nuMA/edit?pli=1#)
- [List of prior path analyses [Github]](https://github.com/18F/path-analysis/blob/master/projects.md)
- [Project resources folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1L9qqS6-b-emvlWJ4JPCG58LW62bbV361)
- [Six weird tips for protecting PII](https://drive.google.com/a/gsa.gov/open?id=1MM6tNlFc-Iwgw_cCUw_0KS8oQMS-FEN7sYftPQLmLAg)
- [Artifacts from design-led projects](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NZG-bxIeFiOw0sAn32a4APJc_TipCrQp)
- [Checklist of requirements for federal government websites](https://digital.gov/resources/checklist-of-requirements-for-federal-digital-services/)
- [Quickstart: Intercept (pop-up) research in GSA buildings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ph3fP2rGr0FeXSeueRD4YmIJYF3f-3yIoI-uDz6iwsI/edit#heading=h.ssdnqe2zdwhz)

### Guides

- [Project Start Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jFGksReKrt2PY_QVe7fj1aOCcyjHlGPf5hkKgv7nuMA/edit?pli=1#)
- [18F Content Guide]({{ '/content-guide/' | url }})
- [TTS Engineering Guide Front-end practices]({{ '/engineering/our-approach/frontend/' |url }})
- [18F Analytics standards [Github]](https://github.com/18F/analytics-standards/)
- [18F Accessibility Guide]({{ '/accessibility/' | url }})
- [Agile Principles and 18F Practices]({{ '/agile/' | url }})
- [Before You Ship: TTS guide to launching software](https://before-you-ship.18f.gov/)
- [18F De-risking Government Technology]({{ '/derisking/' | url }})

## Presentations

- [How to design a better deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WMbN1feG1bMhaFx5YbXoYUTE7xgZdMewMaQBZeL3YmA/edit#slide=id.g58dd554fac_0_397)
- [What is design?](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1dFVWZQzSGMUEj8oDQ_i3Ja0B4z1TFzuPGnYoO4sBAK4)
- [Introduction to design](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10umIwSBuOoEBiNkAQr0ptC91yusdLmfeuAUrqrHDxYk/edit#slide=id.g4b64d72243_0_0)
- [Writing research questions](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16z-oauPeHeBeVxYS3TFRXGFld4uVUEsUjAFZ87fM_IE)
- [Research presentation template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hB0tX65pHGRESHc2e_tGlO65Q4AGwSWFuqhSNImNuRk/edit#slide=id.g9af2006e6a_1_238)

## Additional reading
- [Digital.gov: Understanding design in 10 questions](https://digital.gov/2023/03/03/understanding-design-in-10-questions/)
- [GSA + the Lab@OPM’s Human-Centered Design Discovery Stage Field Guide ](https://www.gsa.gov/cdnstatic/HCD-Discovery-Guide-Interagency-v12-1.pdf)
- [Lab@OPM's HCD Discovery Concept Guide](https://the-lab-at-opm.github.io/HCD-Discovery-Concept-Guide/)
- [Lab@OPM's HCD Discovery Operations Guide](https://the-lab-at-opm.github.io/HCD-Discovery-Operations-Guide/)
- [NYC Civic Service Design: Tools and Tactics](https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/servicedesign/){.usa-link .usa-link--external}
- [GOV.UK Service Manual: User Research](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/user-research)
- [18F UX Guide References](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IYt7kcHMtVAKQdWPUZQB-u9qOvoUx6u3IR9UzF6EwO8/edit#heading=h.xr0ztr7noxa6)

Commit message:

Update meta data in resources.md

content/ux-guide/resources.md, after:

---
title: Resources
description: "Templates, presentations, and checklists to use in a UX research and design process."
permalink: /ux-guide/resources/
layout: layouts/page
tags: ux-guide
eleventyNavigation: 
  parent: ux-guide
  key: ux-guide-resources-home
  order: 3
  title: Resources
sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
subnav:
  - text: Research
    href: "#research"
  - text: Email templates
    href: "#email-templates"
  - text: Design
    href: "#design"
  - text: General
    href: "#general"
  - text: Presentations (GSA only)
    href: "#presentations"
  - text: Additional reading
    href: "#additional-reading"
---

We’ve collected the following templates, presentations, checklists, etc. as starting points — feel free to [contribute to this guide via GitHub](https://github.com/18F/guides/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and help us keep this list up-to-date!

As indicated below, some of these resources are available only to staff of GSA (General Services Administration) or TTS (Technology Transformation Services).

## Research

[Research plan]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/research-plan/' | url }}). ([Google Doc research Plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1M3GP1JWW9mlZAAONklogurd8qXZLLgBqcKfU5HiS9h0/edit#)).  
Prompts for planning research. Pairs well with our [research planning]({{ '/ux-guide/research/plan/' | url }}) article.

[Research alignment workshop]({{ '/ux-guide/research/alignment-workshop/' | url }}). ([Google Doc Research alignment workshop](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NI_riUcrxaMaHihxzHOsr5Gr1n-FxAIqGZ5wzKt3wh4/edit#)).  
A workshop template for publicizing team questions and prioritizing research themes, setting you up to create a research plan that drives maximum value for your team.

[Usability test quality heuristics]({{ '/ux-guide/usability-test-quality-heuristics/' | url }}). ([Google Docs usability test quality heuristics](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qfGp3H1pdOlNbMYuJNQGyBIkpOcQErduDAl0adv1X-w/edit)).  
A list of indicators to help you and your team determine if your usability test will produce useful results.

### Privacy and informed consent
18F’s Design Research is covered by [GSA's Privacy Act Statement for Design Research.](https://www.gsa.gov/reference/gsa-privacy-program/privacy-act-statement-for-design-research)

[Privacy Act Notice Example]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/privacy-act-notice/' | url }}). ([Privacy Act Notice Example](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uWusmU9o-kTaiiM6d-XlW13wma_NL5MJpTLtzyD0L2M/edit?usp=sharing)).  
Example of a statement to include in your participant agreement.  
Please note: you should run substantial customizations by your supervisor, GSA’s Privacy Office, and GSA’s Office of General Counsel.  
- [Legal notes from GSA OGC](https://drive.google.com/a/gsa.gov/open?id=13FWBP5wMf_MgDToVBBrkOafFe5T8NsldzttGENhGgSU)
- [GSA Privacy Impact Assessment for Design Research](https://www.gsa.gov/reference/gsa-privacy-program/privacy-impact-assessments-pia)

[Design research participant agreement]({{ '/ux-guide/participant-agreement/' | url }}). 
[Design research participant agreement in Spanish]({{ '/ux-guide/participant-agreement-spanish/' | url }}).  
Example agreement for people participating in moderated design research.  
Note: You can customize this template, but it must include a Privacy Act statement. If the interview is with a Federal employee, or otherwise will not include compensation, the agreement must also include an Anti-deficiency Act clause.

Looking for PRA (Paperwork Reduction Act) information? See the [UX Guide Legal page]({{ '/ux-guide/research/legal/' | url }}).

### Interviews
[Interview checklist]({{ '/ux-guide/interview-checklist/' | url }}). ([Google Doc interview checklist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zRA2EK9qZ5H_cM3Ki5xf6Gz72F6Ah6i0E87YpwHTC9A/edit)).  
A checklist for planning and conducting in-depth interviews.

[Interview guide]({{ '/ux-guide/interview-script/' | url }}). ([Google Doc interview guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kju19eC5vjqAd6bZCprniLixr1_u1b4Qfs1zVwTn6UA/edit#)).  
An example guide for moderating in-depth interviews with users.

[Usability test script]({{ '/ux-guide/usability-test-script/' | url }}). 
An example guide for moderating usability tests with users.

[Interview debrief guide]({{ '/ux-guide/interview-debrief/' | url }}). ([Interview debrief guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f5Ue2vbeg4-95EevvlURzvl6yMLwMOXtiNwe6OMnb9E/edit)).  
An example guide for teams leading a post-interview debrief.

### Findings presentation
[Research findings presentation template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hB0tX65pHGRESHc2e_tGlO65Q4AGwSWFuqhSNImNuRk/edit#slide=id.g9af2006e6a_1_238)
A starting point for sharing what you learned during a path analysis or discovery sprint. ([Report template 1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DBgwnnHuvR2fAojOwjP8gZ3_jA9pEAGRRKOnmH69d0s/edit), [Report template 2](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mohw86sAoNrwZ6MnIMlX8420IkFWV2kPkB4a_XwbCm8/edit))

## Email templates

[Stakeholder introduces researcher]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/email-templates/stakeholder-introduces-researcher/' | url }}). ([Google Doc: Stakeholder introduces researcher](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AEq-h3wuOxl8CCR9Gg4RPO7NaHJnedC4UbXN0UFQ24Y/edit)).  
An email for stakeholders to introduce and legitimize 18F design researchers to their staff.

[Researcher introduces themselves to a participant]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/email-templates/researcher-introduces-themselves/' | url }}). ([Google Doc: Researcher introduces themselves to a participant](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aiK07pszR331v1d1J2tT6HUQ5JGsSjKjeFBzOwCwHLg/edit#)).  
An email for introducing yourself to potential participants (for example, people who responded to your invitation to participate in the research) and finding a good time for them to participate in a moderated research session.

[Researcher sends agreement to participant]({{ '/ux-guide/resources/email-templates/researcher-sends-agreement/' | url }}). ([Google Doc: Researcher sends agreement to participant](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t01t_eLYWJXuKdJkhiyBqkWf4Yr5XsFAbNv-BDAZqzE/edit#)).  
An email asking participants to review and sign a participant agreement before they participate in moderated research.

## Design

### Collaboration

Designers at 18F should work together with other designers or people in our [Acquisition](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/acqstack/), [Product Management](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/product/) and [Engineering](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/engineering/) Chapters. Read their pages in the [TTS/18F Handbook](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/) for more information.


18F/TTS staff can also participate in local communities of practice in by joining (18F/TTS access only):

- [Content guild (#g-content in Slack)](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/g-content)
- [Accessibility guild (#g-accessibility in Slack)](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/g-accessibility/)
- [Research guild (Channel #g-research in Slack)](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/g-research)

### Requesting help

If you’re in need of a particular skill — help with a presentation or design deliverable; writing and content strategy; or development tasks — 18F staff  may be able to provide support. You can request assistance from 18F colleagues for help on non-billable and billable projects in the [#18f-help-wanted](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=18f-help-wanted) channel. Each discipline is represented at any time in the channel.

The only limitation is that tasks must typically take fewer than 8 hours of work a week, over no more than 3 weeks, for the person providing the assistance. 

### Presenting the work
We most commonly share our work via presentations. These presentations can vary widely based on the audience. Here are a few presentation-building tips:

* Utilize our [18F-branded templates found on the 18F brand site]({{ '/brand/templates/' | url }}) to maintain consistency and save time.
* The presentation deck should tell a compelling story and be easy to read. Make sure to include enough content so those not able to attend the presentation can view the deck later and understand what you’re aiming to communicate. Refer to this presentation on [How to design a better deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WMbN1feG1bMhaFx5YbXoYUTE7xgZdMewMaQBZeL3YmA/edit#slide=id.g58dd554fac_0_397) for additional pointers and guidance.
* Check out the [Project resources folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1L9qqS6-b-emvlWJ4JPCG58LW62bbV361) for reusable content and templates; browse [previous 18F Path Analysis project artifacts [Github]](https://github.com/18F/project-artifacts/blob/master/projects.md) for inspiration; or view the [Design wiki [Github]](https://github.com/18F/Design-Wiki/wiki) for additional examples.
* Feel free to include references or links to further reading at the end of your presentation.


### Tools

- [Cloud.gov Pages](https://cloud.gov/pages/)
- [Cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov/)

## General

- [GSA TTS Handbook](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/)
- [18F Methods](https://methods.18f.gov/)
- [USDS Playbook](https://playbook.cio.gov/)
- [New Hire README](https://handbook.tts.gsa.gov/getting-started/)
- [Project Start Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jFGksReKrt2PY_QVe7fj1aOCcyjHlGPf5hkKgv7nuMA/edit?pli=1#)
- [List of prior path analyses [Github]](https://github.com/18F/path-analysis/blob/master/projects.md)
- [Project resources folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1L9qqS6-b-emvlWJ4JPCG58LW62bbV361)
- [Six weird tips for protecting PII](https://drive.google.com/a/gsa.gov/open?id=1MM6tNlFc-Iwgw_cCUw_0KS8oQMS-FEN7sYftPQLmLAg)
- [Artifacts from design-led projects](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NZG-bxIeFiOw0sAn32a4APJc_TipCrQp)
- [Checklist of requirements for federal government websites](https://digital.gov/resources/checklist-of-requirements-for-federal-digital-services/)
- [Quickstart: Intercept (pop-up) research in GSA buildings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ph3fP2rGr0FeXSeueRD4YmIJYF3f-3yIoI-uDz6iwsI/edit#heading=h.ssdnqe2zdwhz)

### Guides

- [Project Start Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jFGksReKrt2PY_QVe7fj1aOCcyjHlGPf5hkKgv7nuMA/edit?pli=1#)
- [18F Content Guide]({{ '/content-guide/' | url }})
- [TTS Engineering Guide Front-end practices]({{ '/engineering/our-approach/frontend/' |url }})
- [18F Analytics standards [Github]](https://github.com/18F/analytics-standards/)
- [18F Accessibility Guide]({{ '/accessibility/' | url }})
- [Agile Principles and 18F Practices]({{ '/agile/' | url }})
- [Before You Ship: TTS guide to launching software](https://before-you-ship.18f.gov/)
- [18F De-risking Government Technology]({{ '/derisking/' | url }})

## Presentations

- [How to design a better deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WMbN1feG1bMhaFx5YbXoYUTE7xgZdMewMaQBZeL3YmA/edit#slide=id.g58dd554fac_0_397)
- [What is design?](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1dFVWZQzSGMUEj8oDQ_i3Ja0B4z1TFzuPGnYoO4sBAK4)
- [Introduction to design](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10umIwSBuOoEBiNkAQr0ptC91yusdLmfeuAUrqrHDxYk/edit#slide=id.g4b64d72243_0_0)
- [Writing research questions](https://drive.google.com/open?id=16z-oauPeHeBeVxYS3TFRXGFld4uVUEsUjAFZ87fM_IE)
- [Research presentation template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hB0tX65pHGRESHc2e_tGlO65Q4AGwSWFuqhSNImNuRk/edit#slide=id.g9af2006e6a_1_238)

## Additional reading
- [Digital.gov: Understanding design in 10 questions](https://digital.gov/2023/03/03/understanding-design-in-10-questions/)
- [GSA + the Lab@OPM’s Human-Centered Design Discovery Stage Field Guide ](https://www.gsa.gov/cdnstatic/HCD-Discovery-Guide-Interagency-v12-1.pdf)
- [Lab@OPM's HCD Discovery Concept Guide](https://the-lab-at-opm.github.io/HCD-Discovery-Concept-Guide/)
- [Lab@OPM's HCD Discovery Operations Guide](https://the-lab-at-opm.github.io/HCD-Discovery-Operations-Guide/)
- [NYC Civic Service Design: Tools and Tactics](https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/servicedesign/){.usa-link .usa-link--external}
- [GOV.UK Service Manual: User Research](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/user-research)
- [18F UX Guide References](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IYt7kcHMtVAKQdWPUZQB-u9qOvoUx6u3IR9UzF6EwO8/edit#heading=h.xr0ztr7noxa6)
