content/engineering/about/about.md, before:

---
title: About this guide
permalink: /engineering/about/
layout: layouts/page
sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
tags: engineering
subnav:
  - text: How we classify best practices
    href: "#how-we-classify-best-practices"
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: engineering_about
  key: About this guide
  order: 1
  title: About this guide
---
[Technology Transformation Services (TTS)](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/organization/federal-acquisition-service/technology-transformation-services) — which includes [18F](https://18f.gsa.gov/), [Centers of Excellence (CoE)](https://coe.gsa.gov/), [Presidential Innovation Fellows (PIF)](https://presidentialinnovationfellows.gov/), and [TTS Solutions](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/organization/federal-acquisition-service/technology-transformation-services/tts-solutions) — promote best practices across specialty areas through guilds.

Getting new practices into the guide is pretty light on process. Feel free to raise a topic in Slack or at a guild meeting and drive to some consensus. Once you've done that, document your findings, submit a PR, and ask in #dev for a quick review. If you think a proposal might be controversial after getting some consensus prior, please post the draft PR to #dev (and elsewhere if you don’t think target audience is in that channel) and solicit feedback.

## How we classify best practices
These documents are structured by topic; under topics we have classified we indicate "Requirement", "Standard", "Default", "Suggestion", and "Caution".

If a classification is not present on a topic or a reference to a tool or practice, it should be presumed to be a {% include "components/tag-suggestion.html" %} and the decision is left at your discretion. If you are unsure, ask in #dev, as the topic or tool may be a good candidate for classification.

{% include "components/tag-requirement.html" %} indicates practices that _must_ be done for regulatory, legal, compliance, or other reasons.

{% include "components/tag-standard.html" %} signifies practices that have a strong consensus across TTS; they should generally be followed to ease the ATO process and make on-boarding simpler.

{% include "components/tag-default.html" %} practices are safe selections that tend to be used by a large number of our projects; you may find yourself with a better or more tailored solution, however.

{% include "components/tag-suggestion.html" %} indicates examples that have worked well on a project or two; they're not widely used enough to be defaults, but are worth considering.

{% include "components/tag-caution.html" %} marks approaches that have significant pitfalls or should not be used for security/compliance reasons.

If a specific classification is not present on a topic or reference to a tool or practice, it should be presumed to be a {% include "components/tag-suggestion.html" %}.

Commit message:

Moving engineering-specific includes to proper place
-- What
Per the docs and Igor's suggestion, this commit moves all the `tag-*`
templates to the guide-specific includes location for the engineering
guide, ie `_includes/engineering/tag-*`.

We have also updated all includes / references to match the new location

content/engineering/about/about.md, after:

---
title: About this guide
permalink: /engineering/about/
layout: layouts/page
sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
tags: engineering
subnav:
  - text: How we classify best practices
    href: "#how-we-classify-best-practices"
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: engineering_about
  key: About this guide
  order: 1
  title: About this guide
---
[Technology Transformation Services (TTS)](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/organization/federal-acquisition-service/technology-transformation-services) — which includes [18F](https://18f.gsa.gov/), [Centers of Excellence (CoE)](https://coe.gsa.gov/), [Presidential Innovation Fellows (PIF)](https://presidentialinnovationfellows.gov/), and [TTS Solutions](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/organization/federal-acquisition-service/technology-transformation-services/tts-solutions) — promote best practices across specialty areas through guilds.

Getting new practices into the guide is pretty light on process. Feel free to raise a topic in Slack or at a guild meeting and drive to some consensus. Once you've done that, document your findings, submit a PR, and ask in #dev for a quick review. If you think a proposal might be controversial after getting some consensus prior, please post the draft PR to #dev (and elsewhere if you don’t think target audience is in that channel) and solicit feedback.

## How we classify best practices
These documents are structured by topic; under topics we have classified we indicate "Requirement", "Standard", "Default", "Suggestion", and "Caution".

If a classification is not present on a topic or a reference to a tool or practice, it should be presumed to be a {% include "engineering/tag-suggestion.html" %} and the decision is left at your discretion. If you are unsure, ask in #dev, as the topic or tool may be a good candidate for classification.

{% include "engineering/tag-requirement.html" %} indicates practices that _must_ be done for regulatory, legal, compliance, or other reasons.

{% include "engineering/tag-standard.html" %} signifies practices that have a strong consensus across TTS; they should generally be followed to ease the ATO process and make on-boarding simpler.

{% include "engineering/tag-default.html" %} practices are safe selections that tend to be used by a large number of our projects; you may find yourself with a better or more tailored solution, however.

{% include "engineering/tag-suggestion.html" %} indicates examples that have worked well on a project or two; they're not widely used enough to be defaults, but are worth considering.

{% include "engineering/tag-caution.html" %} marks approaches that have significant pitfalls or should not be used for security/compliance reasons.

If a specific classification is not present on a topic or reference to a tool or practice, it should be presumed to be a {% include "engineering/tag-suggestion.html" %}.
