content/methods/validate/metrics.md, before:

---
title: Metrics setting
description: A step to determine what success looks like for a design prototype by determining ideal outcomes and defining measurements indicating progress towards said outcomes.
permalink: /methods/validate/metrics/
redirect_from:
  - metrics/
layout: layouts/method-card
tags: methods
eleventyNavigation:
  key: methods
  parent: Validate
  title: Metrics setting
method:
  title: Metrics setting
  what: How to measure the success of a prototype.
  why: To know if your prototype is successful, you need to define the outcomes you hope it achieves. You also need to define metrics to know if it's achieving them.
  timeRequired: 2-3 hours to brainstorm and select metrics. <br> Length of prototype run to collect data.
  category: validate
  last_modified_at: example timestamp
---

## How to do it{#how-to-metrics}

1. Define the desired outcomes for your prototype. Invite stakeholders to brainstorm. Your outcomes may be based on your [design hypothesis]({{ "/methods/decide/design-hypothesis/" | url }}).
1. List ways to measure whether your prototype is achieving those outcomes. Consider quantitative and qualitative metrics:
    1. Quantitative metrics are numerical indicators (e.g. time on task, and click-through rates). 
    1. Qualitative metrics capture subjective feedback and insights (e.g. usability ratings, user satisfaction).
1. Determine how you will collect data for each metric. This could involve user testing, surveys, analytics tools, and/or interviews.
1. Choose metrics that are most effective yet easiest to measure. 
1. Plan who will be responsible for data collection and how often metrics will be reviewed.
1. Establish benchmarks for each metric. These may be based on industry standards, historical data, or your desired outcomes.
1. Implement the prototype. Start collecting data based on your measurement plan. 
1. Analyze the results against your benchmarks. Iterate the prototype and refine metrics if necessary. 

<section class="method--section method--section--18f-example" markdown="1" >

## Additional resources{#add-metrics}

- [What we mean by service outcomes and measurement — gov.uk blog](https://hodigital.blog.gov.uk/2017/08/04/what-we-mean-by-service-outcomes-and-measurement/)
- [Focus on Impact: Setting Measures of Success — NYC Opportunity blog](https://civicservicedesign.com/focus-on-impact-setting-measures-of-success-76dd207dbaf0)

</section>

<section class="method--section method--section--government-considerations" markdown="1" >

## Considerations for use in government{#con-metrics}

Surveys of more than 9 people require PRA approval. Learn more at PRA.Digital.gov. Direct observation and non-standardized conversations like semi-structured [interviews]({{ "/methods/discover/stakeholder-and-user-interviews/" | url }})) are not subject to PRA.  

Additionally, be mindful that your prototype may not be the only effort being tested. People may be overwhelmed by the amount of data they’re asked to provide. Finding metrics that can be automatically collected can help relieve this burden.

</section>

Commit message:

included melissa's edits to copy, made sure it's within print card bounds

content/methods/validate/metrics.md, after:

---
title: Metrics setting
description: A step to determine what success looks like for a design prototype by determining ideal outcomes and defining measurements indicating progress towards said outcomes.
permalink: /methods/validate/metrics/
redirect_from:
  - metrics/
layout: layouts/method-card
tags: methods
eleventyNavigation:
  key: methods
  parent: Validate
  title: Metrics setting
method:
  title: Metrics setting
  what: How to measure whether your design is successful in achieving the intended outcomes.
  why: No matter what you’re designing (software, a service, content, etc.), you need to define what your design should enable people to do and how you’ll measure whether it performs well.  
  timeRequired: 2-3 hours to brainstorm and select metrics. <br> Length of prototype run to collect data.
  category: validate
  last_modified_at: example timestamp
---

## How to do it{#how-to-metrics}

1. Define the outcomes you expect when your design performs well. Invite stakeholders to brainstorm. Your outcomes may be based on your [design hypothesis]({{ "/methods/decide/design-hypothesis/" | url }}) or user needs statements.
1. List ways to measure whether your design is achieving expected outcomes. Consider quantitative and qualitative metrics:
    1. Quantitative metrics are numerical indicators (e.g. time on task, click-through rates). 
    1. Qualitative metrics capture subjective feedback and insights (e.g. usability ratings, user satisfaction).
1. Determine how you will collect data for each metric. This may involve [user interviews]({{ "/methods/discover/stakeholder-and-user-interviews/" | url }}), [usability testing]({{ "/methods/validate/usability-testing/" | url }}), surveys, and/or analytics. Choose metrics that are effective and measurable. 
1. Plan who will be responsible for data collection and how often metrics will be reviewed.
1. Establish benchmarks for each metric. Benchmarks show whether the design meets peoples’ needs or should be further refined.
1. Test your design, and evaluate success based on your measurement plan.
1. Analyze the results against your benchmarks. Identify strengths and areas of improvement. Iterate on the design prototype. Refine metrics if necessary.

<section class="method--section method--section--18f-example" markdown="1" >

## Additional resources{#add-metrics}

- [What we mean by service outcomes and measurement — gov.uk blog](https://hodigital.blog.gov.uk/2017/08/04/what-we-mean-by-service-outcomes-and-measurement/)
- [Focus on Impact: Setting Measures of Success — NYC Opportunity blog](https://civicservicedesign.com/focus-on-impact-setting-measures-of-success-76dd207dbaf0)

</section>

<section class="method--section method--section--government-considerations" markdown="1" >

## Considerations for use in government{#con-metrics}

Surveys of more than 9 people require PRA approval. Learn more at PRA.Digital.gov. Direct observation and non-standardized conversations like semi-structured [interviews]({{ "/methods/discover/stakeholder-and-user-interviews/" | url }})) are not subject to PRA.

Your prototype may not be the only effort being tested. People may be overwhelmed by the amount of data they’re asked to provide. Finding metrics that can be automatically collected can help relieve this burden.

</section>
