content/engineering/languages-runtimes/python.md, before:

---
title: Python development guide
sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
permalink: /engineering/languages-runtimes/python/
redirect_from:
  - engineering/python/
tags: engineering
layout: layouts/page
eleventyNavigation: 
  parent: engineering_languages
  key: Python
  order: 4
  title: Python
subnav:
  - text: Versions
    href: "#versions"
  - text: Style
    href: "#style"
  - text: Libraries
    href: "#libraries"
  - text: Type support
    href: "#type-support"
---

This is a **WORK IN PROGRESS**. Help us make it better by [submitting an issue](https://github.com/18F/development-guide) or joining us in the [#python](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/C02ES0C3R) channel!

This document is structured by topic; under each, we include “Standards”, “Defaults”, and “Suggestions”.

**Standards** are practices that have a strong consensus across TTS; they should generally be followed to ease the ATO process and make on-boarding simpler.

**Defaults** are safe selections that tend to be used by a large number of our projects; you may find yourself with a better or more tailored solution, however.

**Suggestions** contain examples that have worked well on a project or two; they're not widely used enough to be defaults, but are worth considering. 

## Versions
We've **standardized** on Python 3.x over 2.x. All new projects should begin their life in 3.x, though legacy libraries can continue to support 2.x (in addition to 3.x) through [tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). When starting a Python project, select the [latest Python release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/python-buildpack/releases) available on cloud.gov and incrementally update as new releases are issued.

When using [Django], we **default** to starting with the most recent [Long Term Support](https://www.djangoproject.com/download/#supported-versions) release. This will give your project the most runway of support. If a second LTS becomes available while building the project, upgrade at the earliest convenience. Devs that follow will thank you.

Otherwise, our **standard** practice is to use the latest release of our libraries when first installing. Security updates (as indicated by GitHub or Snyk) should be applied ASAP, but all libs should be updated at some routine interval (e.g. quarterly).

Finally, in an effort to ensure our deployments are repeatable, our code **standards** require all dependencies (including dependencies' dependencies) be pinned to specific versions. This should also apply to the development environment (e.g. linters, testing tools, etc.) **Suggestions** for implementing that include
* [pip-tools](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools)'s `pip-sync`
* [pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv)'s `Pipfile.lock`
* [vendoring dependencies](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/buildpacks/python/index.html#vendoring)
  (though this is only a partial solution)

## Style
Our **standard** tool for ensuring consistency across Python code bases is [flake8](http://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/). Its **default** settings are a good first step, as is using its [integration with isort](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8-isort) for import order. We **suggest** investigating flake8's [plugin ecosystem](https://pypi.python.org/pypi?%3Aaction=search&term=flake8&submit=search) for more functionality.

Use [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) for automatic code formatting.

Using Code Climate to measure complexity scores (by way of [radon](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/radon)) is also a reasonable **default** to ensure you see potentially confounding functions and classes.

## Libraries
The Python ecosystem is large and full of alternative solutions to similar problems. Here we document a few common use cases and the libraries we recommend when trying to solve them.

| Purpose | Library | Conviction |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Test Runner | [py.test](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) | Standard |
| Web framework | [Django] | Default |
| ORM | [Django] | Default |
| API | [Django Rest Framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/) | Default |
| HTTP Client | [Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) | Default |
| Task Queue | [Celery](https://github.com/celery/celery) | Suggestion |
 
## Type support
Python 3.5 and beyond have had partial support for static type hints. Static typing can both make code authors' intent clearer and reduce the number of bugs through static analysis. It's also notorious for slowing down the pace of prototyping and requiring a great deal of boiler-plate.

Given this state, we believe it's reasonable to **default** to using type annotations when they make your intent clearer (i.e. as a form of documentation). We **suggest** using a static analysis tool (such as [mypy](http://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)) to catch logic bugs, but only where it's practical. Consider a white-list of files to run against.

[Django]: https://www.djangoproject.com/

Commit message:

Replace flake8/isort/black with ruff.
[Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) is a newer project from only a few
years ago that does all the things flake8/isort/black does, but in one package,
and is much faster. I think standardizing on ruff for new projects would help
have less tools to run and set up, and also reduce cycle time by making it run
anywhere from slightly to much faster than flake8 depending on the size of the
project.

content/engineering/languages-runtimes/python.md, after:

---
title: Python development guide
sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
permalink: /engineering/languages-runtimes/python/
redirect_from:
  - engineering/python/
tags: engineering
layout: layouts/page
eleventyNavigation: 
  parent: engineering_languages
  key: Python
  order: 4
  title: Python
subnav:
  - text: Versions
    href: "#versions"
  - text: Style
    href: "#style"
  - text: Libraries
    href: "#libraries"
  - text: Type support
    href: "#type-support"
---

This is a **WORK IN PROGRESS**. Help us make it better by [submitting an issue](https://github.com/18F/development-guide) or joining us in the [#python](https://gsa-tts.slack.com/messages/C02ES0C3R) channel!

This document is structured by topic; under each, we include “Standards”, “Defaults”, and “Suggestions”.

**Standards** are practices that have a strong consensus across TTS; they should generally be followed to ease the ATO process and make on-boarding simpler.

**Defaults** are safe selections that tend to be used by a large number of our projects; you may find yourself with a better or more tailored solution, however.

**Suggestions** contain examples that have worked well on a project or two; they're not widely used enough to be defaults, but are worth considering. 

## Versions
We've **standardized** on Python 3.x over 2.x. All new projects should begin their life in 3.x, though legacy libraries can continue to support 2.x (in addition to 3.x) through [tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). When starting a Python project, select the [latest Python release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/python-buildpack/releases) available on cloud.gov and incrementally update as new releases are issued.

When using [Django], we **default** to starting with the most recent [Long Term Support](https://www.djangoproject.com/download/#supported-versions) release. This will give your project the most runway of support. If a second LTS becomes available while building the project, upgrade at the earliest convenience. Devs that follow will thank you.

Otherwise, our **standard** practice is to use the latest release of our libraries when first installing. Security updates (as indicated by GitHub or Snyk) should be applied ASAP, but all libs should be updated at some routine interval (e.g. quarterly).

Finally, in an effort to ensure our deployments are repeatable, our code **standards** require all dependencies (including dependencies' dependencies) be pinned to specific versions. This should also apply to the development environment (e.g. linters, testing tools, etc.) **Suggestions** for implementing that include
* [pip-tools](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools)'s `pip-sync`
* [pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv)'s `Pipfile.lock`
* [vendoring dependencies](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/buildpacks/python/index.html#vendoring)
  (though this is only a partial solution)

## Style

Our **standard** tool for ensuring consistency across Python code bases is
[Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff). Its **default** settings are a good
first step.

It includes syntax checking (previously under
[flake8](http://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)), import ordering (previously under
[isort](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8-isort)), and automatic code
formatting (same defaults as [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)),
but all in one package and runs much faster than previous programs. In older
projects these tools may still be being used.

Using Code Climate to measure complexity scores (by way of [radon](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/radon)) is also a reasonable **default** to ensure you see potentially confounding functions and classes.

## Libraries
The Python ecosystem is large and full of alternative solutions to similar problems. Here we document a few common use cases and the libraries we recommend when trying to solve them.

| Purpose | Library | Conviction |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Test Runner | [py.test](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) | Standard |
| Web framework | [Django] | Default |
| ORM | [Django] | Default |
| API | [Django Rest Framework](http://www.django-rest-framework.org/) | Default |
| HTTP Client | [Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) | Default |
| Task Queue | [Celery](https://github.com/celery/celery) | Suggestion |
 
## Type support
Python 3.5 and beyond have had partial support for static type hints. Static typing can both make code authors' intent clearer and reduce the number of bugs through static analysis. It's also notorious for slowing down the pace of prototyping and requiring a great deal of boiler-plate.

Given this state, we believe it's reasonable to **default** to using type annotations when they make your intent clearer (i.e. as a form of documentation). We **suggest** using a static analysis tool (such as [mypy](http://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)) to catch logic bugs, but only where it's practical. Consider a white-list of files to run against.

[Django]: https://www.djangoproject.com/
