content/brand/images.md, before:

---
title: Images
permalink: /brand/images/
layout: layouts/page
sidenav: false
tags: brand
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: brand
  key: images
  order: 7
  title: Images
---
## Virtual backgrounds
A collection of images containing the 18F logo that can be used as virtual backgrounds for video calls.

{% image_with_class "assets/brand/img/18F_VideoBG_6Illo.png" "" "" %}

[Download virtual backgrounds]({{ "/assets/brand/dist/18F_VideoBackgrounds.zip" | url }}){.usa-button}

## Desktop Art
A variety of wallpaper images for MacBooks and Apple Displays.

{% image_with_class "assets/brand/img/18FDesktop-Preview.png" "" "" %}

[Download desktop art]({{ "/assets/brand/dist/18F_Desktop_Art.zip" | url }}){.usa-button}

### Instructions
1. In **System Preferences**, open **Desktop &amp; Screensaver**.
2. On the **Desktop** tab, click the **+** button.
3. Find the **18F_Desktop_Art** folder and click **Choose**.
4. Choose your desktop wallpaper on the right.

#### Image credits
* Flag, Eric Duvauchelle / Unsplash
* Sky, [Tumprins](http://tumblr.unsplash.com/post/54230079634/download-tumprins)
* Statue of Liberty, [Anthony Delanoix](https://unsplash.com/photos/ciJJ57qsQLs)
* Highway, [Israel Sundseth](https://unsplash.com/photos/BYu8ITUWMfc/)

Commit message:

added Open Peeps into images section.

content/brand/images.md, after:

---
title: Images
permalink: /brand/images/
layout: layouts/page
sidenav: false
tags: brand
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: brand
  key: images
  order: 7
  title: Images
---
## Representing humans
In order to offer more diverse and expressive ways to represent humans, we created a custom set of Open Peeps based on [the work of Pablo Stanley](https://www.openpeeps.com/). These are great for showing emotion and to represent anonymous user groups.

These are available to GSA staff in two formats:
* Via the [starter deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fAzoUwkfKAS2hy4YkqjHLqSQa_rvqiUyFpgACq6tRpY/edit#slide=id.g2efd29ee28c_0_0), which includes several character sets and a range of emotions as well as guidance on different ways to represent humans.
* Via the [full Figma library](https://www.figma.com/design/sA9t0Msi5Ycvx5ITVMJylU/18F_Open_Peeps_Mainfile?node-id=2328-21896&t=qWFSkRL1ga6yHdnO-0) for designers.

{% image_with_class "assets/brand/img/open_peeps_splash.png" "" "" %}

## Virtual backgrounds
A collection of images containing the 18F logo that can be used as virtual backgrounds for video calls.

{% image_with_class "assets/brand/img/18F_VideoBG_6Illo.png" "" "" %}

[Download virtual backgrounds]({{ "/assets/brand/dist/18F_VideoBackgrounds.zip" | url }}){.usa-button}

## Desktop Art
A variety of wallpaper images for MacBooks and Apple Displays.

{% image_with_class "assets/brand/img/18FDesktop-Preview.png" "" "" %}

[Download desktop art]({{ "/assets/brand/dist/18F_Desktop_Art.zip" | url }}){.usa-button}

### Instructions
1. In **System Preferences**, open **Desktop &amp; Screensaver**.
2. On the **Desktop** tab, click the **+** button.
3. Find the **18F_Desktop_Art** folder and click **Choose**.
4. Choose your desktop wallpaper on the right.

#### Image credits
* Flag, Eric Duvauchelle / Unsplash
* Sky, [Tumprins](http://tumblr.unsplash.com/post/54230079634/download-tumprins)
* Statue of Liberty, [Anthony Delanoix](https://unsplash.com/photos/ciJJ57qsQLs)
* Highway, [Israel Sundseth](https://unsplash.com/photos/BYu8ITUWMfc/)
