content/methods/discover/stakeholder-influence-mapping.md, before:

---
title: Stakeholder influence mapping
description: A visual representation of stakeholders — the people who are involved — and their potential influence and impact on a project or service system, in comparison to one another.
permalink: /methods/discover/stakeholder-influence-mapping/
redirect_from:
  - stakeholder-influence-mapping/
layout: layouts/method-card
tags: methods
eleventyNavigation:
  key: methods
  parent: Discover
  title: Stakeholder influence mapping
method:
  title: Stakeholder influence mapping
  what: A visual representation of stakeholders — the people who are involved — and their potential influence and impact on a project or service system, in comparison to one another.
  why: To uncover and describe power dynamics — the often-unspoken balances of influence and control — that could impact project outcomes; prioritize which stakeholders to engage with and how, and inform a communication and engagement approach.
  timeRequired: ~1 hour
  category: discover
---

## How to do it{#how-stake-i}

1. Gather the team and, ideally, at least one crucial  stakeholder familiar with their organization and how it works from both a technical and an interpersonal point of view.
1. If meeting in person, you’ll need sticky notes and a whiteboard; if meeting remotely, use a virtual whiteboard or tools that support online document collaboration, ideally simultaneously.
1. Divide the whiteboard into four areas, as a grid. Label the x axis influence and the y axis interest.
1. List out stakeholders together. Write down names of people, groups, communities, or organizations that your work may impact, and organize them into the four quadrants based on your understanding of their relative influence and interest.
1. Look at each quadrant to sort who to engage with and how:
    - interested and influential - collaborate with them
    - either influential or interested - keep them informed
    - neither influential nor interested - allow them to drive their own involvement
1. If your map reveals power dynamics that route around policy, consider whether the information poses personal or professional risk to any stakeholders. Avoid possible harm by sharing this map with only the people who need to understand it, and consider the consequences of those you do share with — or share an edited version.
1. Review and update the map as you understand the situation better.

<section class="method--section method--section--18f-example" markdown="1" >

## Considerations for use in government{#con-stake-i}

No PRA implications. No information is collected from members of the public.

</section>

Commit message:

Update content on Stakeholder influence mapping Method card

content/methods/discover/stakeholder-influence-mapping.md, after:

---
title: Stakeholder influence mapping
description: A visual representation of stakeholders — the people who are involved — and their potential influence and impact on a project or service system, in comparison to one another.
permalink: /methods/discover/stakeholder-influence-mapping/
redirect_from:
  - stakeholder-influence-mapping/
layout: layouts/method-card
tags: methods
eleventyNavigation:
  key: methods
  parent: Discover
  title: Stakeholder influence mapping
method:
  title: Stakeholder influence mapping
  what: A visual representation of stakeholders—the people who are involved—and their potential influence and impact on a project or service system in comparison to one another.
  why: To uncover and describe power dynamics—the often-unspoken balances of influence and control—that can impact project outcomes. Stakeholder influence mapping also helps us prioritize which stakeholders to engage with and how, and informs our communication and engagement approach.
  timeRequired: ~1 hour
  category: discover
---

## How to do it{#how-stake-i}

1. Gather the team and at least one crucial stakeholder familiar with their organization and how it works from both a technical and an interpersonal point of view.
1. Using a whiteboard (or virtual collaboration tool), divide the board into a grid with 4 sections. Label the x-axis *influence* and the y-axis *interest*.
1. List out stakeholders together. Write down names of people, groups, communities, or organizations that your work may impact, and organize them into the four quadrants based on your understanding of their relative influence and interest.
1. Look at each quadrant to sort who to engage with and how. For stakeholders that are both __interested and influential__, collaborate closely with them. For stakeholders that are __either influential *or* interested__, keep them informed. For stakeholders that are __neither influential nor interested__, allow them to drive their own involvement.
1. If your map reveals power dynamics that route around policy, consider whether the information poses personal or professional risk to any stakeholders. Avoid possible harm by sharing this map with only the people who need to understand it, and consider the consequences of those you do share with — or share an edited version. Be sure to review and update the map as you understand the situation better.

<section class="method--section method--section--18f-example" markdown="1" >

## Considerations for use in government{#con-stake-i}

No PRA implications. No information is collected from members of the public.

</section>
