docs/replatforming.md, before:

---
permalink: false
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---
# Replatforming
This document captures the structure of the new platform for 18F approaches and outlines the process of migrating our existing content to the new platform. This document is a work in progress.

##  Content organization
The content for all of the guides is in the `content` folder, which is organized with subfolders for each guide. For example all of the content for the De-risking guide should be placed in `content/derisking/`.

Additionally, if a guide contains multiple sections, each section should have its own subfolder in that guide's folder. All pages that are part of a section should be placed into the section subfolder. For example, the "Federal Field Guide" is a section within the De-risking Guide, and "Basic principles" is a page in the "Federal Field Guide". So `basic-principles.md` would be placed in `content/derisking/federal-field-guide/`.

### Guide-specific files
If there are images and `include` files that only one guide uses, create a guide-specific folder within the site-wide `asset` or `_includes` folder.

Call a guide-specific include by using `{% include '[guide-folder]/[include-name].html' %}`. An example is in the Engineering Hiring Guide, where there is a warning about unconscious biases displayed on several pages. The file `unconscious-bias-warning.html` is located in `_includes/eng-hiring/`. The pages that use it will contain the line `{% include 'eng-hiring/unconscious-bias-warning.html' %}`

## Guide titles and subdirectories
The `_data/titles_roots.yaml` file is used to set the title for each guide (i.e. what appears after the 18F logo in the header). In addition it defines the name of the URL “subdirectory” that will be the “root” or homepage for the guide. A guide’s tag is used as a key which maps to the title and root. This tag is referenced to set the title, header, and primary navigation for each guide.

_Example:_
```
agile:
  title: Agile
  root: /agile/
```
## Guide primary navigation

The `_data/navigation.yaml` file is used to define the primary navigation for each guide. The guide’s tag is used as a key which maps to its list of link names and urls.

_Example:_
```
agile:
  - name: Home
    url: /agile/
```

## Collections / tags
11ty uses “[collections](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/collections/)” to create content groupings. We can create a distinct collection for each guide, which allows us to group relevant content together. Site pages can be added to a collection simply by adding a `tag` to the front matter with the appropriate guide name as the value. The tag name is used throughout the site to refer to each guide (for example to determine the guide’s title).

_Examples:_
De-risking guide content would have the front matter `tags: derisking`
UX guide pages would have `tags: ux-guide`

## Base URLs
Eleventy does not use `{{site.baseurl}}` to refer to other pages. When linking to another page on the site, use Eleventy's `url` filter as such:
- For the home `index.md` page, use `{{ '[Markdown filename]' | url }}`.
- For any other page in `content/[guide]`, use `{{ '../[Markdown file name]/' | url }}` (remember the trailing slash!)
- For pages in their own section within each guide, use `{{ '../../[Markdown file name]/' | url }}` (remember the trailing slash!). An example is in the Engineering Hiring guide, where there are several pages in `content/eng-hiring/interviews/`. Any page within the `interviews` folder needs to use `../../` to link to other pages in `content/eng-hiring/`

## Sidenavs
We can use the [EleventyNavigation](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/navigation/) plugin to programmatically create a sidenav for any collection. In order to group pages within a subsection together, all pages within a section should have a common `eleventyNavigation` `parent` key. For example the introduction page for the content guide "Our style" would include the following front matter:
```
eleventyNavigation:
  key: content-style-index
  parent: content-style
  order: 1
  title: Our style
---
```
and similarly, the "Active voice" page within that section would have the following in its front matter:

```
eleventyNavigation:
  key: content-active
  parent: content-style
  order: 3
  title: Active voice
```

In the above front matter:
- `parent: content-sytle` references the name of the parent section.
- `key: content-active` sets this page's unique key for the sidenav.
- `order: 3` explicitly sets the order the page should appear in the sidenav (in this case it'll be first).
- `title: Active voice` controls what text is displayed in the sidenav. This field is optional, and if it’s omitted the `key` value will be displayed.

### Sticky sidenavs
Use `sticky_sidenav: true` to stick the sidenav to the top of the window when scrolling.

### Subnavs
You can use the existing `subnav:` options in the original file's front matter to generate a subnav with the current page's anchor links. To prevent errors in `eleventyNavigation`, ensure the `parent` and `key` values are different.

## Ignoring assetPaths
We want to avoid commiting the `assetPaths.json` file, but need to keep it out of the project `.gitignore` in order to allow eleventy to rebuild when it is changed. One way to resolve this issue is to add `assetPaths.json` to the git exclude list:
1. Open up `.git/info/exclude`
2. Add `assetPaths.json` to that file

If that doesn't work, type in `git update-index --assume-unchanged _data/assetPaths.json` into the terminal.

## Content migration process

The general steps for migrating a guide:
1. Add the guide to the `_data/titles_roots.yaml` file with the guide’s tag, name, and root (See [Guide titles and subdirectories](#guide-titles-and-subdirectories) for an example).
2. Add the primary navigation for the guide to `_data/navigation.yaml`.
3. Add a link to the new guide in `_includes/guidelist.html` so it will be easier to find.
4. Copy over the markdown file for the guide into the appropriate subfolder.
5. Open up the markdown file to edit the front matter:
    1. Change the layout to `layout/page` or whatever layout is most appropriate.
    2. Add `tags: <collection-name>` where <collection-name> is the guide’s tag.
    3. Update the `permalink` to the link that should be displayed. Generally this will be `/<guide-root>/<section-name>/<page-name>`. Try to match the permalink of the original markdown file.
    4. Add the `eleventyNavigation` front matter (See [Sidenavs](#sidenavs) for more details) :
    ```
    eleventyNavigation:
      parent: <collection-name>
      key: <unique-key>
      order: <#>
      title: <Sidenav-title>
    ```
6. If your guide offers any downloads, add the files for download to `/assets/{guide}/dist/{filename}`, and set the download links to point to the same path.
7. Celebrate! Or edit this documentation to update any steps that may be missing.

## Adding new node modules

It may turn out that you need to install an npm package to replicate functionality in the old guides. Here's how to do it!

First, before your write any code or configuration that relies on the package, install the package via Docker Compose while the services are running:

```sh
# If you haven't already
$ docker compose up

# In another tab
$ docker compose exec guides npm install {your options here}
```

## CI/CD
Every pull request will trigger a build on Cloud.gov pages. Additionally, we have a github workflow in place that performs a number of tests on every pull request:
- Automated accessbility test with`pa11y-ci`
- HTML validation with `html-validate`
- Internal link checking with `check-html-links`

### Running pa11y
We use `pa11y-ci` is used to scan for accessibility issues. The scan runs as part of
our CI setup (see the [pull-request.yml workflow](.github/workflows/pull-request.yml))
on every pull request, but it can also be run locally. To run locally, type:

```
npm run test:pa11y-ci
```

Note that running `pa11y-ci` inside the docker container may not always work.

In cases where you want pa11y to ignore a certain element, such as in the accessibility guide which intentionally shows examples of accessibility issues, you can add the data attribute `data-pa11y-ignore` to the element that should be ignored.

In certain cases we may need `pa11y-ci` to ignore an element. For example, in the accessibility guide there are elements that violate a11y rules on purpose. We know those will fail and don't want to fix them because they are showing an example of a bad practice, and so we want `pa11y-ci` to ignore them. To do so we can the data attribute `data-pa11y-ignore` to the element that should be ignored.

_Example:_

```html
<span style = "color:#58AA02" class="exampleFailure" data-pa11y-ignore>This text fails.</span>
```

### HTML Validation
`html-validate` will check for valid HTML. It is configured in `.htmlvalidate.json`.

### Link checking
`check-html-links` will test both internal and external links on the site. The internal link check tests whether a target link file exists in the `_site` folder at the expected location. Because the current version of `check-html-link` [does not return an error value](https://github.com/modernweb-dev/rocket/issues/166) when it finds broken links, the npm script for this check includes an additional grep search for a "✅" which would appear only if there are no broken links. With this (hopefully) temporary fix in place, github actions will report a failure if there are broken links.

If you'd like to run these locally you could run `npm run test:links`. Note that the external-link test takes significantly longer than the internal link check (around 40 seconds to a minute). If you'd like to only test for internal links you can run `npm run test:links-internal`.

If there is a link that is still to be deteremined as we are moving guides, you can use '/TODO/' as the URL. This will visually highlight the link as TODO, and the link will be ignored in the link test.

Commit message:

Remove references to external links from documentation

docs/replatforming.md, after:

---
permalink: false
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---
# Replatforming
This document captures the structure of the new platform for 18F approaches and outlines the process of migrating our existing content to the new platform. This document is a work in progress.

##  Content organization
The content for all of the guides is in the `content` folder, which is organized with subfolders for each guide. For example all of the content for the De-risking guide should be placed in `content/derisking/`.

Additionally, if a guide contains multiple sections, each section should have its own subfolder in that guide's folder. All pages that are part of a section should be placed into the section subfolder. For example, the "Federal Field Guide" is a section within the De-risking Guide, and "Basic principles" is a page in the "Federal Field Guide". So `basic-principles.md` would be placed in `content/derisking/federal-field-guide/`.

### Guide-specific files
If there are images and `include` files that only one guide uses, create a guide-specific folder within the site-wide `asset` or `_includes` folder.

Call a guide-specific include by using `{% include '[guide-folder]/[include-name].html' %}`. An example is in the Engineering Hiring Guide, where there is a warning about unconscious biases displayed on several pages. The file `unconscious-bias-warning.html` is located in `_includes/eng-hiring/`. The pages that use it will contain the line `{% include 'eng-hiring/unconscious-bias-warning.html' %}`

## Guide titles and subdirectories
The `_data/titles_roots.yaml` file is used to set the title for each guide (i.e. what appears after the 18F logo in the header). In addition it defines the name of the URL “subdirectory” that will be the “root” or homepage for the guide. A guide’s tag is used as a key which maps to the title and root. This tag is referenced to set the title, header, and primary navigation for each guide.

_Example:_
```
agile:
  title: Agile
  root: /agile/
```
## Guide primary navigation

The `_data/navigation.yaml` file is used to define the primary navigation for each guide. The guide’s tag is used as a key which maps to its list of link names and urls.

_Example:_
```
agile:
  - name: Home
    url: /agile/
```

## Collections / tags
11ty uses “[collections](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/collections/)” to create content groupings. We can create a distinct collection for each guide, which allows us to group relevant content together. Site pages can be added to a collection simply by adding a `tag` to the front matter with the appropriate guide name as the value. The tag name is used throughout the site to refer to each guide (for example to determine the guide’s title).

_Examples:_
De-risking guide content would have the front matter `tags: derisking`
UX guide pages would have `tags: ux-guide`

## Base URLs
Eleventy does not use `{{site.baseurl}}` to refer to other pages. When linking to another page on the site, use Eleventy's `url` filter as such:
- For the home `index.md` page, use `{{ '[Markdown filename]' | url }}`.
- For any other page in `content/[guide]`, use `{{ '../[Markdown file name]/' | url }}` (remember the trailing slash!)
- For pages in their own section within each guide, use `{{ '../../[Markdown file name]/' | url }}` (remember the trailing slash!). An example is in the Engineering Hiring guide, where there are several pages in `content/eng-hiring/interviews/`. Any page within the `interviews` folder needs to use `../../` to link to other pages in `content/eng-hiring/`

## Sidenavs
We can use the [EleventyNavigation](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/navigation/) plugin to programmatically create a sidenav for any collection. In order to group pages within a subsection together, all pages within a section should have a common `eleventyNavigation` `parent` key. For example the introduction page for the content guide "Our style" would include the following front matter:
```
eleventyNavigation:
  key: content-style-index
  parent: content-style
  order: 1
  title: Our style
---
```
and similarly, the "Active voice" page within that section would have the following in its front matter:

```
eleventyNavigation:
  key: content-active
  parent: content-style
  order: 3
  title: Active voice
```

In the above front matter:
- `parent: content-sytle` references the name of the parent section.
- `key: content-active` sets this page's unique key for the sidenav.
- `order: 3` explicitly sets the order the page should appear in the sidenav (in this case it'll be first).
- `title: Active voice` controls what text is displayed in the sidenav. This field is optional, and if it’s omitted the `key` value will be displayed.

### Sticky sidenavs
Use `sticky_sidenav: true` to stick the sidenav to the top of the window when scrolling.

### Subnavs
You can use the existing `subnav:` options in the original file's front matter to generate a subnav with the current page's anchor links. To prevent errors in `eleventyNavigation`, ensure the `parent` and `key` values are different.

## Ignoring assetPaths
We want to avoid commiting the `assetPaths.json` file, but need to keep it out of the project `.gitignore` in order to allow eleventy to rebuild when it is changed. One way to resolve this issue is to add `assetPaths.json` to the git exclude list:
1. Open up `.git/info/exclude`
2. Add `assetPaths.json` to that file

If that doesn't work, type in `git update-index --assume-unchanged _data/assetPaths.json` into the terminal.

## Content migration process

The general steps for migrating a guide:
1. Add the guide to the `_data/titles_roots.yaml` file with the guide’s tag, name, and root (See [Guide titles and subdirectories](#guide-titles-and-subdirectories) for an example).
2. Add the primary navigation for the guide to `_data/navigation.yaml`.
3. Add a link to the new guide in `_includes/guidelist.html` so it will be easier to find.
4. Copy over the markdown file for the guide into the appropriate subfolder.
5. Open up the markdown file to edit the front matter:
    1. Change the layout to `layout/page` or whatever layout is most appropriate.
    2. Add `tags: <collection-name>` where <collection-name> is the guide’s tag.
    3. Update the `permalink` to the link that should be displayed. Generally this will be `/<guide-root>/<section-name>/<page-name>`. Try to match the permalink of the original markdown file.
    4. Add the `eleventyNavigation` front matter (See [Sidenavs](#sidenavs) for more details) :
    ```
    eleventyNavigation:
      parent: <collection-name>
      key: <unique-key>
      order: <#>
      title: <Sidenav-title>
    ```
6. If your guide offers any downloads, add the files for download to `/assets/{guide}/dist/{filename}`, and set the download links to point to the same path.
7. Celebrate! Or edit this documentation to update any steps that may be missing.

## Adding new node modules

It may turn out that you need to install an npm package to replicate functionality in the old guides. Here's how to do it!

First, before your write any code or configuration that relies on the package, install the package via Docker Compose while the services are running:

```sh
# If you haven't already
$ docker compose up

# In another tab
$ docker compose exec guides npm install {your options here}
```

## CI/CD
Every pull request will trigger a build on Cloud.gov pages. Additionally, we have a github workflow in place that performs a number of tests on every pull request:
- Automated accessbility test with`pa11y-ci`
- HTML validation with `html-validate`
- Internal link checking with `check-html-links`

### Running pa11y
We use `pa11y-ci` is used to scan for accessibility issues. The scan runs as part of
our CI setup (see the [pull-request.yml workflow](.github/workflows/pull-request.yml))
on every pull request, but it can also be run locally. To run locally, type:

```
npm run test:pa11y-ci
```

Note that running `pa11y-ci` inside the docker container may not always work.

In cases where you want pa11y to ignore a certain element, such as in the accessibility guide which intentionally shows examples of accessibility issues, you can add the data attribute `data-pa11y-ignore` to the element that should be ignored.

In certain cases we may need `pa11y-ci` to ignore an element. For example, in the accessibility guide there are elements that violate a11y rules on purpose. We know those will fail and don't want to fix them because they are showing an example of a bad practice, and so we want `pa11y-ci` to ignore them. To do so we can the data attribute `data-pa11y-ignore` to the element that should be ignored.

_Example:_

```html
<span style = "color:#58AA02" class="exampleFailure" data-pa11y-ignore>This text fails.</span>
```

### HTML Validation
`html-validate` will check for valid HTML. It is configured in `.htmlvalidate.json`.

### Link checking
`check-html-links` will test internal links on the site. The internal link check tests whether a target link file exists in the `_site` folder at the expected location. Because the current version of `check-html-link` [does not return an error value](https://github.com/modernweb-dev/rocket/issues/166) when it finds broken links, the npm script for this check includes an additional grep search for a "✅" which would appear only if there are no broken links. With this (hopefully) temporary fix in place, github actions will report a failure if there are broken links.

If you'd like to run these locally you could run `npm run test:links`. Alternatively you could use `npm run test:links-internal`, which will run the test with colorized output if you find that helpful, but note that it will not return an accurate exit code.

If there is a link that is still to be deteremined as we are moving guides, you can use '/TODO/' as the URL. This will visually highlight the link as TODO, and the link will be ignored in the link test.
